Nine police officers arrested an unarmed black teenager in California after he allegedly jaywalked and then scuffled with an officer.  A video of the incident shows the officers surrounding the 16-year-old African American and forcing him to the ground after he got into an altercation with an officer who accused him of walking in a bus-only lane.  The incident happened in the city of Stockton, 80 miles (130km) east of San Francisco, on Wednesday morning. A cellphone video uploaded to Facebook and YouTube by a passerby has been viewed more than 10,000 times.  It shows an officer using his baton to push and hold the boy, wearing shorts, on a landscaped perimeter on the sidewalk.  They scuffle, the boy yelling “get the fuck off me” and the officer shouting “stop resisting arrest”. The officer strikes him in the face and orders him to the ground but the boy does not comply.  An unseen female bystander shouts in protest: “That’s a fucking kid! Don’t touch him, leave him alone! That’s a kid. Are you serious? He didn’t do nothing wrong.”  The officer retrieves from the ground what appears to be a body camera knocked off during the scuffle.  Several patrol cars arrive and four officers force the boy to the ground, handcuff him and march him to a car while colleagues mill around them. The protester’s voice rises in anger and disbelief: “That is a child! That is child that was jaywalking! That’s a fucking child! What’s wrong with y’all?”  YouTube user Edward Avendaño posted the video under the username Stockton Port City. In a Facebook post he said the officer tried to stop the teenager for jaywalking and ordered him to sit but the teen kept walking to his bus.  “The cop kept grabbing his arm & the kid took off the cop’s hand off his arm so the cop took out his baton & that’s when I started recording because everything happened too quick. He didn’t have to hit the kid with the baton & no need to call about 20 cops.”  Joseph Silva, a spokesman for Stockton’s police department, told the Guardian the first officer had seen the teen walking in a bus lane near the city’s transit center.  The teen “cussed” when ordered onto the sidewalk “for safety reasons”, said Silva. “These things wouldn’t happen if people followed officers’ lawful instructions.”  The teenager was held in custody and released to his mother pending a charge in juvenile court with resisting arrest and trespassing.  It appeared that the officers acted within policy but the incident was under review because any use of force triggers an automatic administrative review, said Silva. The boy’s family has filed a complaint, he added.
Much as I enjoy P.G. Wodehouse’s Jeeves novels and the TV series “Downton Abbey,” I’ve never fancied having a valet. Imagine paying somebody to wake you, hand you the newspaper, remind you of the afternoon fox hunt, and help you put on your clothes. Creepy.  And then I met Alexa, the electronic servant packed into a sleek black cylinder called Echo. This $180 device from Amazon.com uses voice recognition and a broadband Internet connection to cater to my digital whims. After a few days, I’ve begun to see that Downton’s Lord Crawley is onto something. A chap can get used to this.  It points us toward a future in which we’ll control gadgets with our lips and not our fingers.  “Alexa, wake me at 7,” I mutter before tumbling into bed. Sure enough, she starts to warble right on time, falling silent the moment I tell her to stop. “Alexa, what’s on my calendar?” I ask, and a warm female voice rattles off my next four days’ worth of appointments. The words emerge all jumbled together, but no matter; I get the picture.  And then I get the news. “Alexa, flash briefing,” I say, and suddenly I’m listening to the latest headlines from NPR and the BBC. More trouble in Greece, it seems. Pity. Must call my broker.  Too bad Alexa can’t make breakfast. Actually, there are a lot of things she can’t do. But Amazon’s Echo is already excellent, and bound to get better as its software is upgraded.  It’s a bit confusing that the device is called Echo but answers to the name Alexa. Actually, Alexa is the brains of the system, and Echo is the first hardware product to offer it. Amazon hopes to add Alexa software to other devices.  But it started with Echo, which looks like a jet-black can for tennis balls. The lower two-thirds of the device is a speaker for playing Alexa’s voice, as well as news reports and music streamed from Amazon’s online music service. It’s a decent enough speaker at low volume, but sounds rough when you turn it way up.  Alexa gets her brains from the Internet. During setup, you connect the Echo to your Wi-Fi network. Then you set it up using an app that’s available for Android or Apple devices.  The Echo uses an array of seven microphones to pick up voices. I found it remarkably accurate, even when I spoke softly. A plastic ring around the rim of the device lights up when you say “Alexa,” the trigger world that tells Echo you’re about to give orders.  Saying “Alexa, what’s the weather like?” generates the latest forecast. “Alexa, play Henry Mancini” gives me a nostalgic playback of 1960s movie music. “Alexa, remind me to buy potatoes” adds it to my smartphone’s shopping list. It’s all hands-free, because Echo is constantly listening. It’s a potential privacy threat, but Amazon says that nothing you say is recorded unless it’s preceded by the word “Alexa.”  Amazon built in a few goofy gimmicks, similar to those you’ll find in Apple Inc.’s Siri speech-recognition software. For instance, if you say “Alexa, tell a joke,” prepare to be semi-amused. Alexa is lousy at answering requests for random facts; for instance, it doesn’t know the number of planets in the solar system. Throw the same question at Siri and at least the screen shows the relevant Wikipedia article. Google’s rival software, Google Now, did the best of all, speaking the names of all eight planets.  Still, Alexa’s bound to get smarter over time, and a lot more powerful. Major companies will make their services Alexa-compatible later this year. The online retailer StubHub will orally sell you concert tickets; financial software maker Intuit will let customers ask for their bank account balance; AOL will read its members the latest news headlines.  In addition, Amazon is investing $100 million in companies that are building Alexa-compatible products. The company wants Alexa embedded into practically anything electronic — TV sets, kitchen appliances, the bathroom medicine cabinet. You’ve heard of the Internet of Things, the effort to connect virtually every device to the network? Amazon wants us to control all these gadgets with our mouths.  So in a few years, I’ll walk into the house and say, “Alexa, turn on the Red Sox game, preheat the oven to 350, set the thermostat to 72, and transfer $500 from savings to checking.” And it will all happen, just like that.  I’ll still have to dress myself and pour my own coffee, but I think I can manage.
Tuesday, March 10, 2015, 2:44 PM  Apple's CEO Tim Cook finally revealed the tech specs for the highly anticipated Apple Watch Monday in San Francisco, when he announced the smartwatch will begin shipping April 24 and starts at $349.  The Apple Watch will come in two different Retina displays, 38MM and 42MM, and it'll have a battery that lasts up to 18 hours. The watch will also come in four different colors and three different models: Apple Watch Sport, Apple Watch and Apple Watch Edition.  Compared to other watches like the Samsung Gear S and the Moto 360, the Apple Watch is capable of doing the same basic things such as receive messages and calls, feature calendar notifications and double as a fitness tracker.  Apple is a latecomer in the smartwatch competition, but it'll still be a viable competitor in the market since the Apple Watch is specifically tailored for iPhone users.  The Daily News created an infographic that highlights all smartwatches' tech specs including prices, weight, displays and battery life — which may vary depending on use.  If you're thinking of getting a smartwatch, this infographic might just help you get a better sense of your options.  This is how the Apple Watch's tech specs compare to other smartwatches:
updated 8:57 PM EDT, Thu May 1, 2014  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  Bathing suits through the years  (CNN) -- If you've got it, don't flaunt it -- at least not on the Spanish resort island of Mallorca, where citizens are so sick of under dressed tourists that fines could soon be issued for inappropriate attire.  A proposed new law, reportedly close to being enacted, will ban the wearing of swimwear outside bathing areas in the island's capital, Palma.  Photos: Celebs show off beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Celebs and their beach bodies  Sports Illustrated's swimsuit issue cover stars  Officials say they're happy for visitors to let it all hang out on the beach, but when it comes to wandering around town, semi-nudity is a no-no.  "I do not know of any upscale resort town that allows this practice," Alvaro Gijon, deputy mayor of Palma, reportedly told a recent press conference.  MORE: 10 of Madrid's best tapas bars  The proposed crackdown is part of a wider set of measures aimed at tackling what is seen as anti-social behavior on the island, a popular package destination for north Europeans.  No specific penalties have been detailed in Palma City Council's "Ordenanza Civica" -- also known as the "good citizen plan."  However, the UK's Daily Mail newspaper expressed concerns that what some media outlets called a "bikini ban" could leave unsuspecting travelers facing fines in excess of $800.  Its readers seemed less concerned, with some commenting that they'd welcome a cover-up.  One of them, Calagran, commented: "I've lived on Mallorca for the past 11 years and it makes my skin crawl when I have to stand behind some fat sweaty individual in the supermarket who thinks it's OK to let it all hang out."  MORE: Spain's bizarre annual fire festival  Under a section titled "etiquette," the Ordenanza states that it'll be forbidden for anyone to be "naked or nude" in public places or "devoid of superior clothing."  Unlike an ill-fitting pair of Speedos, there is some room for maneuver, however.  The proposed prohibition doesn't apply to boardwalks or streets adjacent to the beach -- so there's no need to dress up when dashing for an ice cream.
To get deals in your inbox each morning, sign up for our Term Sheet newsletter  Invuity Inc., a San Francisco-based developer of surgical visualization and illumination technology, has raised $36 million in Series E funding. HealthCare Royalty Partners led the round, and was joined by return backers Valence Life Sciences, InterWest Partners and Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers,www.invuity.com  Clinicient Inc., a Portland, Ore.-based provider of revenue cycle management software and clinical solutions for outpatient rehabilitation therapy businesses, has raised $15 million in Series C funding from Catalyst Investors. www.clinicient.com  Wickr, a San Francisco-based provider of a military-grade encrypted mobile messaging service, has raised $9 million in Series A funding. Alsop Louie Partners led the round, and was joined by Juniper Networks and the Knight Foundation. www.mywickr.com  Play-I Inc., a Sunnyvale, Calif.–based maker of robotic toys for children, has raised $8 million in Series A funding co-led by Madrona Venture Group and Charles River Ventures. The deal was done at a $25 million pre-money valuation, according to VentureWire. www.play-i.com  Reflektion, a San Mateo, Calif.-based provider of predictive analytics for retailers, has raised $8 million in Series B funding co-led by Intel Capital and Nike Inc. www.reflektion.com  Zumper, a San Francisco-based apartment rental platform, has raised $6.5 million in new VC funding.Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers led the round, and was joined by New Enterprise Associates and Dawn Capital. www.zumper.com  Speek, a Reston, Va.-based provider of browser-based conference calling solutions, has raised $5.1 million in Series A funding (including conversion of $2.7m in prior convertible notes). Backers include 500 Startups, CNF Investments, Middleland Capital and angel investors like the actor Edward Norton.www.speek.com  Altamont Capital Partners has acquired a majority equity stake in Celestite, an Irving, Texas–based insurance managing general agency focused on the non-standard auto market. No financial terms were disclosed. www.celestite.com  Apax Partners is in talks to acquire Israeli paint company Tambour Ltd. from Azrieli Group for approximately $230 million, according to the Globes financial daily. www.apax.com  The Carlyle Group has acquired a majority stake in Bonotel Exclusive Travel, a Las Vegas-based luxury tour operator in North America and the Caribbean. No financial terms were disclosed.www.bonotel.com  CIP Capital has acquired OnCourse Learning Corp., a Waukesha, Wisc.-based provider of career-focused professional training programs in the financial services, real estate and IT industries, from The Riverside Company. No financial terms were disclosed.. www.riversidecompany.com  One Equity Partners has acquired PeroxyChem LLC, a Philadelphia-based peroxygen chemistries business, from FMC Corp. (NYSE: FMC) for approximately $200 million. www.PeroxyChem.com  Resilience Capital Partners has acquired Thermal Product Solutions, a maker of environmental test chambers, industrial ovens and industrial furnaces, from SPX Corp. (NYSE: SPW). No financial terms were disclosed. www.resiliencecapital.com  The Watermill Group has acquired The Plastics Group, a Willowbrook, Ill.–based maker of highly-engineered plastic components, from Chicago Growth Partners and Merit Capital Partners. No financial terms were disclosed. www.theplasticsgroup.net  Brit Insurance, an Amsterdam-based insurance and reinsurance group backed by Apollo Global Management and CVC Capital Partners, today filed an “intention to float” with the London Stock Exchange, with plans to list around 25% of the company next month. www.britinsurance.com  Corium International Inc., a Menlo Park, Calif.-based developer of pharma products that leverage transdermal and transmucosal delivery systems, has filed for a $50 million IPO. It plans to trade on the Nasdaq under ticker symbol CORI, with Jefferies and Leerink Partners serving as lead underwriters. The company reports a $2 million net loss on $10 million in revenue for Q4 2013. Shareholders include Essex Woodlands Health Ventures (55.92% pre-IPO stake) and Barr Laboratories (9.97%).www.coriumgroup.com  iKang Healthcare Group Inc., a Chinese medical services provider, has filed for a $150 million IPO. It plans to trade on the Nasdaq under ticker symbol KANG, with BofA Merrill Lynch and UBS serving as lead underwriters. The company reports a $12.5 million in net income on $134 million in revenue for 2013, compared to $10 million in net income on $94 million in revenue for 2012. Shareholders include Top Fortune Win (15.4% pre-IPO stake), ShanghaiMed (11.2%), Ora Investment (13.6% pre-IPO stake), Goldman Sachs (10.5%) and NewQuest Asia Investments (7.8%).  Mediwound Ltd., an Israel-based developer of burn and chronic wound management drug, has set its IPO terms to 5 million shares being offered at between $14 and $16 per share. It would have an initial market cap of around $265 million, were it to price in the middle of its range. The company plans to trade on the Nasdaq under ticker symbol MDWD, with Jefferies, Credit Suisse and BMO Capital Markets serving as lead underwriters. Shareholders include Clal Biotechnology Industries (65.3% pre-IPO stake). www.mediwound.com  OPower, an Arlington, Va.-based provider of energy efficiency and smart grid software, has filed a $100 million IPO. It plans to trade on the NYSE under ticker symbol OPWR, with Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs serving as lead underwriters. The company reports a $14 million net loss on nearly $89 million in revenue for 2013, compared to a $12 million net loss on $52 million in revenue for 2012. The company has raised over $65 million in VC funding from firms like New Enterprise Associates (21.8% pre-IPO stake), MHS Capital (8.3%), Accel Partners (5.4%) and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers (5.4%). www.opower.com  The City of Philadelphia has agreed to sell its natural gas utility to UIL Holdings (NYSE: UIL) for approximately $1.9 billion. The utility manages gas for around 500,000 customers, and UIL has agreed not to raise base rates until 2017. www.uil.com  Borro, a UK-based online pawn shop, has raised $112 million in financing from Victory Park Capital. The company previously raised $26 million in VC funding led by Canaan Partners. Read more.www.borro.com  Facebook (Nasdaq: FB) is in talks to acquire near-orbital, solar-powered drone-maker Titan Aerospace for approximately $60 million, according to TechCrunch. www.titanaerospace.com  Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) has approached Safeway Inc. (NYSE: SWY) about buying certain assets, according to Bloomberg. Kroger also has spoken with Cerberus Capital Management, which has offered to acquire Safeway, about purchasing select assets that Cerberus may not want.www.kroger.com  Numericable (Paris: NUM) and Altice (Amsterdam: ATC) are prepping a $20 billion bid for Vivendi’s (Paris: VIV) mobile unit, according to The NY Times. www.vivendi.com  Unilever has hired Morgan Stanley to find a buyer for pasta sauce brand Ragu, according to the WSJ. The deal could be valued at around $2 billion. www.unilever.com  Sign up for Dan Primack’s daily email newsletter on deals and deal-makers: GetTermSheet.com
Chinese President Xi Jinping has lauded his country's position as a major world power, as Beijing marked the 70th anniversary of victory over Japan with a show of strength in Tiananmen Square.  Speaking on the Tiananmen Rostrum where Mao Zedong declared the formation of the People's Republic in 1949, Xi said "total victory" over Japan "restored China's status as a major country in the world".  Major world leaders stayed away from the military parade, with disquiet growing over China's increasing willingness to throw its weight around in territorial disputes.  The display of might comes as the Chinese navy pushes further away from domestic shores, challenging US dominance, with five of its vessels spotted in the Bering Sea for the first time  After a 70-gun salute, thousands of troops marched in formation through the square, with tanks and missiles following and a flypast by around 200 aircraft in blue skies overhead.  Xi said that Beijing will "not seek hegemony" and China's military - the largest in the world - would be reduced by 300,000 troops.  Authorities have previously made personnel cuts to the 2.3 million strong People's Liberation Army in a bid to make it a more efficient fighting force.  Beijing officially calls the conflict the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and World Anti-Fascist War, and regularly criticises Tokyo for what it says is insufficient contrition over wartime atrocities.  But it has repeatedly insisted the parade is not aimed at any particular country, including Japan.  "The unyielding Chinese people fought gallantly and finally won total victory against the Japanese militarist aggressors, thus preserving China's 5,000-year-old civilisation and upholding the cause of peace," Xi said.  He described the conflict as "a decisive battle between justice and evil, between light and darkness".  The equipment on show for the first time included DF-21D missiles, an anti-ship ballistic missile seen as a "carrier-killer" that could alter the balance of power with the US in the Pacific Ocean.  Under Xi, Beijing is moving farther away from former leader Deng Xiaoping's dictum to "hide one's capabilities, bide one's time".  Decades of double-digit budget increases have transformed the military, giving Beijing the confidence to push a program of artificial island building in the South China Sea, and vigorously proclaim its sovereignty over disputed outcrops controlled by Japan.  The sight of military muscle in Tiananmen Square, where Chinese troops crushed protests in 1989, is likely to have played a part in keeping some democratic-minded Western leaders away.  Russian President Vladimir Putin was the highest-profile foreign guest, given a prominent position next to Xi on the rostrum.  Also present were leaders of Kazakhstan and Venezuela, as well as Sudan's Omar al-Bashir - indicted by the International Criminal Court - and authoritarian Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.  More mainstream guests included South Korea's Park Geun-Hye, whose country was colonised by Japan, Jacob Zuma of South Africa, and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.  Chinese authorities mobilised hundreds of thousands of Beijing citizens and closed roads all over the city, as well as shuttering the capital's airports.  The Communist Party uses nationalism as a key part of its claim to a right to rule, and China's official media have carried a litany of articles on past Japanese atrocities, while war dramas have been constant theme on television.  Do you have any news photos or videos?
One official who has been briefed on the case said the military prosecutors were considering seeking the death penalty for Mr. Mohammed, although no final decision appears to have been made. The official added that the military prosecutors had decided to focus on the Sept. 11 attacks in part as an effort to try to establish credibility for the military commission system before a new administration takes the White House next January.  “The thinking was 9/11 is the heart and soul of the whole thing. The thinking was: go for that,” the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because no one in the government was authorized to speak about the case. Even if the charges are released soon, it would be many months before a trial could be held, lawyers said.  A Pentagon spokesman, Bryan Whitman, declined to comment specifically. But he added that the government was preparing a case against “individuals who have been involved in some of the most grievous acts of violence and terror against the United States and our allies.”  “The prosecution team is close to moving forward on referring charges on a number of individuals,” Mr. Whitman said.  Ever since President Bush announced in 2006 that he had transferred 14 “high value” detainees to Guantánamo from a secret C.I.A. detention program, it has been expected that the Pentagon would eventually lodge charges involving several of the numerous terror plots to which officials say several of those men were tied.  Officials have said detainees now held at Guantánamo are responsible for attacks that killed thousands of people, including the United States Embassy bombings in East Africa in 1998, the attack on the destroyer Cole in 2000, and the Bali nightclub bombing in 2002.  But it has always been clear that a case involving the Sept. 11 plot would be the centerpiece of the military commissions system and its most stringent test. After the Supreme Court struck down the Bush administration’s first system for military commission trials in 2006, Congress enacted a new law.  Among other things, the Military Commissions Act provides that detainees charged with war crimes are entitled to military lawyers to defend them, a presumption of innocence and a right of appeal. But detainees’ lawyers and other critics have said that many flaws remain, including the fact that the system is under Pentagon control and even the judges are military officers.  Told of the possible charges, Carie Lemack, whose mother was killed on American Airlines Flight 11, said such a trial would be a grueling process for the families. But, Ms. Lemack said, “It is important that justice be brought to those who killed my mother and nearly 3,000 others.”  It was not clear Friday whether final decisions had been made about precise charges and which detainees are to be included.  But it is known that the prosecutors have considered charges of murder, conspiracy and providing material support for terrorism because of the Sept. 11 deaths. It is also known that a joint team of military and Department of Justice lawyers working on the case have considered charging six of the best-known Guantánamo detainees.  Lawyers have said that two of those are men whose treatment in American hands would inevitably be a focus of defense lawyers in their cases.  One of them, Mr. Mohammed, known as KSM, was subject to the simulated-drowning technique known as waterboarding while in secret C.I.A. custody, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, confirmed this week.  The American-educated Mr. Mohammed was described by the Sept. 11 commission as the “self-cast star, the superterrorist,” with plans for destruction on a vast scale. At a Pentagon hearing last year, he claimed responsibility for more than 30 terrorist attacks and plots.  He was explicit about his role in the 2001 attacks. “I was responsible for the 9/11 operation, from A to Z,” he said.  The other detainee whose treatment could become a focus of any trial is Mohammed al-Qahtani, who has been held at Guantánamo since 2002. Pentagon officials have said he may have been the so-called “20th hijacker.” A month before the attacks, he flew from Dubai to Orlando, Fla., but was denied entry into the United States by an immigration official.  Pentagon investigators concluded in 2005 that he had been subject to abusive treatment at Guantánamo, including sleep deprivation, being forced to wear a bra and being led around on a leash.  Gitanjali Gutierrez, one of Mr. al-Qahtani’s lawyers at the Center for Constitutional Rights, said she had no information about whether he would be charged. “But if he is,” Ms. Gutierrez said, “I can assure you that his well-documented torture and the controversy over secret trials will be the focus.”  Zacarias Moussaoui, who at one point was identified by prosecutors as a potential “20th hijacker” pleaded guilty to conspiracy in 2005, and is serving a life term. He is the only person who has been tried in a United States court for involvement in the Sept. 11 plot.  Defense lawyers are also expected to use any commission cases to challenge the prosecutors over the C.I.A.’s destruction of tapes of interrogations of two detainees, which has been acknowledged by the agency.  Among the other four potential defendants are Guantánamo detainees who intelligence officials have said played critical support roles for the hijackers.  Officials say Ramzi bin al-Shibh, who had been a roommate of the lead hijacker Mohamed Atta in Hamburg, Germany, was the main intermediary between the hijackers and Al Qaeda leaders in the months before Sept. 11.  The Pentagon has described another detainee, Ammar al-Baluchi, a nephew of Mr. Mohammed, as “a key lieutenant for KSM during the operation on 11 September” who wired $114,500 to the hijackers.  Mr. al-Baluchi’s assistant was Mustafa Ahmed al-Hawsawi, according to various accounts. The September 11 commission said that Mr. al-Hawsawi had been assigned by Mr. Mohammed to help coordinate hijackers’ travel and was so centrally involved that he was their contact for unused money to be returned in the days before the attacks.  Finally, the detainee known as Khallad, who is missing part of his right leg as a result of what officials say is a long jihadist history, is believed to have had long ties to Mr. bin Laden. Officials have said Khallad helped select and train some of the hijackers and was originally slated to have been one of them himself.  A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: 6 AT GUANTANAMO ARE SAID TO FACE TRIAL IN 9/11 CASE . Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe
If it's true that all economists believe in the notion of free trade, then they also largely believe that government efforts to control prices invariably end in tears. It is through prices that economies are organized. When artificial prices are set, supply and demand fall out of equilibrium.  This is particularly true when governments seek to halt the rise in the price of products. If they're able to force producers to offer goods at prices below the prevailing market rate, shortages become inevitable. No producer is willing to supply goods at costs that don't reflect the marketplace, and the result is a situation where demand outstrips supply.  Conversely, price controls meant to keep the cost of goods higher than markets would allow create an excess of supply over demand. When governments essentially pay producers to make what consumers don't necessarily want while allowing them to charge an above-market price, supply is plentiful--just look at agricultural goods.  So while the folly of price controls is obvious among the economic commentariat, there's a strange paradox at work when it comes to the Federal Reserve. While some economists on the alleged fringe seek the Fed's abolishment, there's a general acceptance among the profession that the Fed plays a necessary economic role in setting the short rate for cash, or the Fed funds rate.  It is with the Fed funds rate that logic about price controls goes out the window.  When the Fed seeks to raise its funds rate, economists generally conclude that the Fed is "tightening." On the other hand, when Fed officials push the short rate of interest down, the Fed is said to be "loose."  This is important when we consider the latest statement from the Federal Open Market Committee about interest rates. Released after the FOMC's rate deliberations on Nov. 4, the following was the Fed's comment on the funds rate it sets:  "The Committee will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued inflation trends and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period."  Translated, the Fed will keep money "loose" for the foreseeable future based on the broad view that low rates of interest correlate with easy money. But what the Fed fails to recognize is how its distortion of the short rate for cash might be making it difficult to access capital.  Indeed, while the Fed can use its powers to push the cost of money below the natural market rate, there's nothing saying that those in possession of cash have to offer their savings at that rate. If a near-zero rate for cash is what the Fed is seeking, savers might not be so eager to put their money in the bank since they'll get little in return for their savings. In that sense, it should be asked if the Fed's supposedly easy monetary policies are in fact fostering a "tight" market for capital.  According to an NFIB survey of small businesses, that's exactly what's happening at present. Reporting on the survey, USA Today found that small businesses are finding it very difficult to get credit. A report from the Kauffman Foundation has similarly observed that "Business loans have plummeted during this recession."  Difficult credit markets for businesses fly in the face of the generally accepted view that money is presently "easy." So why is capital so hard to access when the Fed is doing so much to keep interest rates low? Aren't low interest rates a signal of easy money?  At first glance, low interest rates are a sign of plentiful credit, but this is merely the "seen." The "unseen" in this equation is how savers will respond if government price controls are pushing the true cost of capital below its natural market rate.  Sensing that they'll not achieve a market rate of return on their loans, savers are seeking alternatives to putting money in the bank, where they'll achieve negligible rates of interest on their savings. Non-market rates of interest set by the Fed are logically driving up demand for capital in concert with a reduction in supply. Nothing surprising here--this is the inevitable result of price controls.  This is not a call for higher interest rates from the Federal Reserve. Instead it's a suggestion that rather than attempting to divine the market rate for cash, the Fed should float the funds rate that it sets so that market forces can equalize the supply of and demand for credit.  If the dollar is the most important price in the world, the rate of interest for borrowed dollars is arguably the second most. That being the case, as long as the Fed usurps the role of markets in an attempt to set the proper price for credit, its rate machinations will make capital difficult to access.  Credit is ultimately the lifeblood of any business, and market rates of interest are what make capital as broadly accessible as possible. Short-term thinking tells us that Fed is being "stimulative" through its low-rate policies, but price controls are just that, and it is the Fed's efforts to enforce non-market rates of interest that are presently making credit hard to find.  John Tamny is editor of RealClearMarkets, a senior economist with H.C. Wainwright Economics and a senior economic adviser to Toreador Research and Trading. He writes a weekly column for Forbes.  Read more Forbes Opinions here.
You can say this for the new Miami Dolphins uniforms: It’s not the worst redesign by a Florida-based NFL team to be revealed on Tuesday.  Hours after the Jacksonville Jaguars unveiled their new XFL-like uniforms, Paul Lukas of Uni Watch tweeted a picture of the leaked Dolphins kits for the upcoming season.  CONFIRMED leak of new Miami Dolphins uniforms: twitter.com/UniWatch/statu…  — Paul Lukas (@UniWatch) April 23, 2013  1. The uniforms don’t look all that different from the old ones. They’re sleeker and more modern, but without a 500-word press release from Nike talking about the subtle shift in colors and adjustments to the collar that will revolutionize the sport, it’s hard for the casual observer to see the changes. This is a tweak, not an overhaul.  2. That new logo, on the other hand, is still hideous. It looks like the worst tattoo you’d find on a Sea World employee.
“Stateless” student veterans unable to establish residency due to frequent moves will now qualify for in-state tuition rates at public schools thanks to the VA reform bill.  After wrangling over the details, Congress finally passed the reduced tuition rate as part of the $16.3 billion VA reform measure on Thursday.  The Post-9/11 GI Bill covers in-state tuition in full for student veterans at public schools but not the total, costlier out-of-state rate. In the 2012-2013 school year, in-state tuition averaged $8,655 while out-of-state fees averaged $21,706, according to the College Board.  One Army veteran, Hayleigh Perez, was stationed in Fort Bragg, N.C., before her 2007 deployment to Iraq. When she was honorably discharged in 2009 after her service and she applied to North Carolina schools, she was told she would have to pay the out-of-state rate since she couldn’t establish residency.  "I'm an American and I served our great country ... I don't have a state of residency if North Carolina is not considering me a resident, " Perez told ABC News in 2012.  To help veterans manage the out-of-state costs, the Yellow Ribbon Program was enacted for participating universities to cover a portion of the additional fees and, in turn, the institution receives partial reimbursement from federal matching grants.  But with the lower in-state tuition rate for all veterans, public schools will see a reduction in those federal funds.  The Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, which lobbies on behalf of 234 public institutions in the U.S., protested the in-state tuition rate change earlier this summer, calling it a federal allocation of state taxpayer funds.  The group complained that while they would no longer receive federal grants, “private nonprofit and for-profit higher education institutions would still retain the yellow-ribbon benefits,” in a June letter to lawmakers mulling the provision.  “The reduction of the Yellow Ribbon Program benefits for public universities would add further financial strain to these institutions. Additionally, as more veterans take advantage of this in-state tuition provision, costs to public universities will further increase.”  But Congress forged ahead in approving the mandated rate last week — a move that left one student veterans group “elated.”  “This is huge and will ease the tuition burden. We’ve spent the last two years pushing for this,” a rep for the Student Veterans of America told the Daily News.  “School is an important transition tool for veterans. Getting them into school is really important.”  The Post-9/11 Veterans Education Assistance Act of 2008 (or Post-9/11 GI Bill) was passed in July 2008 and provides education benefits to service members on active duty for 90 days or more since Sept. 10, 2001.  In the 2012-2013 academic year, the Post-9/11 GI Bill paid out $4.17 billion to educate 697,522 student veterans, according to the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. 50% (347,772) of veterans opted for public schools.
